# Sharn Watch

https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/erftlw/building-eberron-adventures-sharn#SharnWatch

A common viewpoint among the citizens of Sharn is that in the upper wards, the Sharn Watch works for the wealthy; in the middle wards, it works for the Boromar Clan; and in the lower wards, it doesn't work at all. This assessment is close enough to the truth. There's an important undercurrent in the situation, however. Although most officers of the Watch take bribes, that doesn't mean all of them don't care about their city and won't try to keep their communities safe; they do so because they see their benefactors as being an important part of the continued health of their community. For instance, those officers who take gold from the Boromar Clan believe that the Boromars help keep the city running and give the people what they want. But if some strangers in town break the law, they're just troublemakers who deserve to be run in.

As another example, the guards of the Dura Bazaar have an understanding with the gang of pickpockets known as the Little Fingers. As long as the thieves target only tourists and foreigners, the Watch will dismiss any charges brought against them. Why should an officer of the Sharn Watch care if some Aundarian with more gold than sense gets robbed? But if the Little Fingers pick on a local, they're asking for trouble. The relationship works both ways; the pickpockets are privy to things the Watch officers aren't, and they often warn the Watch about suspicious people or activities they witness.

Watch officers do exist who are entirely crooked and care nothing for the law. At the other extreme, some officers are entirely honorable and place the law above all else, and most of those are willing to risk their lives to save an innocent bystander from a rampaging Daask troll. But most members of the Watch are pragmatists who put the needs of their clients uppermost, the needs of the citizenry second, and generally don't take action against locals.

The upshot of all this is that the Watch's response to a crime can vary significantly depending on the nature of the crime and where it's committed. As a rule, when a crime is committed in Skyway, any of the upper or middle wards, Lower Central, Lower Tavick's Landing, or Precarious, members of the Watch arrive to intervene and investigate as soon as possible. In Cliffside, Lower Menthis, and Lower Northedge, the few Watch members in these locations address crimes in order of priority. In Lower Dura and the Cogs, the Watch's response is typically very slow.

## Sharn Watch Divisions

The discussion above primarily concerns the rank and file of the Sharn Watch, the guards who walk the streets day in and day out and the officers who supervise them. The Watch also includes a few special divisions that could cross the paths of the adventurers.

**The Blackened Book** is an elite core of abjurers and diviners, charged with investigating and containing magical threats. These wizards are highly dedicated to their work and their city, and generally don't take bribes. It's up to the higher-ups, however, to decide what missions to assign to the Blackened Book; if there's a case that a noble doesn't want investigated, it probably won't be.

**The Guardians of the Gate** came into being during the Last War to monitor the activities of foreign nationals and immigrants. Their duties have expanded since the surge of refugees into Sharn following the Mourning, and the Guardians of the Gate closely supervise the district of High Walls. The Guardians are chosen from among the best soldiers of the Watch and are devoted to their city. Many of them, however, place the safety of the city ahead of strict adherence to the law, and complaints are raised against them from time to time for unnecessary violence against refugees.

**The Redcloak Battalion** is an exceptional unit of soldiers that is called upon if a situation calls for extreme military force. The Redcloaks are heroes of the Last War, and now that the fighting is over most of them don't appreciate being used as local police. The Redcloaks are absolutely faithful to Breland: they are willing to lay down their lives in the service of their nation. Trying to bribe a Redcloak is a good way to lose a hand. Like the Blackened Book, however, the Redcloaks are elite troops that act only when they're mustered by a captain of the Watch; typically, they won't be asked to respond to a situation if it's not in the interests of the Boromar Clan. The Redcloak Battalion is described in more detail in chapter 3.
